AndreiB

reffered documents:
.fm file is /docs/manuals/production/csl_files/csl_buses.fm

document notes:
- 1.3 this instruction seems incomplete: .list = ((fn)+);
- 1.6 moved commands to csl commands section. Keep or revert ?
- 1.6.1:
	 "Is sent down a pipeline to the different units." - what is sent down the pipeline ? The packet containing the semaphore ? and if so, should it be defined first what it is ?
	 What is "CSL Vector Specification", title ? - should I turn it into a heading 3 ?
	 "Defining common interfaces in the design and verification components" - another headline ?
	 What is a common interface (beyond the concept definition) ?
	 What does "back door load" mean ?
	 In the sentence "Vectors and states are assigned names for the purposes of selecting the vectors and states" - what does 'states' refer to ? The states of the state elements ?
	 "Regression environment scripts
	   testlists
	   C/C++ models
	   testbenches"
	  ^ Remove these lines?
	 Changed:
"A set of test vectors is comprised of a vectors captured based on an event."
	to
"A set of test vectors is comprised of test vectors captured based on an event."
	 test_vector_name = "{" signal_list "}"  ";" <- Is this a csl command ?
	 What is "a set of golden test vectors" ?
	 commands like:   test_vector_name "." event_type "(" test_event_type ")" ";" should be changed to the new model (user variables in italics, csl keywords in bold)?
	 Changed:
"Events are defined that define the points at which to turn on and turn off the test vector recording."
	to
"Events are defined that indicate points at which to turn on and turn off the test vector recording."
	 In the sentence "The simulators can run stand alone using an executable test or the simulators can be driven with test vectors" what is an "executable test" ? Is it a pre-defined test, or hardwired test into the simulator ?
	 The sentence "Or the test vectors can be " is incomplete
	 the text:
connect a named test_vector from a C/C++ model or file to a design under test
test_vector_connection :
test_vector_CONNECTION test_vector_name cmodel_instance dut_instance ";"
	is unclear
	 where should these explanations of acronyms be placed:
ACsim  = algorithmic C/C++ simulator
BCsim  = behavioral C/C++ simulator
Vsim     = RTL simulator
DUT      = design under test
Chip      = Chip level
Module  = module level
	 under "Example test vector usage models" there is some text that may be better turned into a figure ? 
	BCsim.chip-->module.test_vector-->file-->compare<--file<--module.test_vector<--DUT.Vsim.chip
	 The C++ code at pages 8 and 9 appears incomplete
	 page 10: "CSL Data Framer" turn into a heading ?
	 Changed:
"The sender of the data frames the data with begin and end signals so that the sender can de-packetize the data."
	to
"The sender of the data frames marks the data with begin and end signals so that the receiver can de-packetize the data." The receiver de-packetizes the data, right ?
	 Turn the text representation of signals (frame begin, frame end, data etc) below into a figure ?
	 How do these fit into text? 
"serdes unit
serializer/deserializer unit"
	 Starting at page 10, with "CSL types stored in OM classes will be translated into verilog and C++ code" there are a few pages which recur (however some aspects are more detailed) some explanations a few pages earlier: "CSL types stored in OM classes will be translated into verilog and C++ code." from page 8..
	 At page 10: "instructions contain opcodes each opcode is associated with an instruction format" - why is it bulleted? what kind of instructions ? what are opcodes ? also, Figure 1.1 has no title and C++ code section below appears incomplete (or should be explained if it only contains code hints).
	 Figure 1.2 has no title
	 Under Packet inheritance (under Figure 1.4) in the C++ code section is illustrated an inheritance and I couldn't understand the next two examples; the code also may needs to be completed.
	 Figure 1.5 - at the top of the figure where exactly should the words "packet pipeline" be placed ?
	 Beneath Figure 1.5 the bulleted list represents csl commands? and if so change to the new model ? eg: pipeline_create(in_sig out_sig);
	 Under Figure 1.7 I understand there are free flowing connection and flow control connection types, but they are not clearly distinguished as two different types (maybe a bulleted list or a specification in text)? Also, 	the text 
"Pushing transaction down a pipe with output stage stalled.
Pipelines in modules can have bubbles 
Bubbles in pipelines can be removed if the consumer is stalled."
	is not clearly expanded
	 Under Table 1.4 the text:
"valid data flows until no invalid pipes are at the output"
	may be
"valid data flows as long as no invalid pipes are at the output" ?  Also, the note: "(merge with pipestage doc)" is still valid? and if so, move everything starting with CSL pipelines on page 14 ?
	 Rephrased:
"A is sent down a pipeline to the different units.
Units read the packet containing the semaphore"
	to
"A packet containing a semaphore is sent down a pipeline to the different units which read it."
	 what is "csl_dvs_bus" ?
	 Figure 1.10 has no title; Figure 1.11 "Transaction bus with no stall": it is not specified weather the stall signal is active on 0 or on 1. (also in Figure 1.10)
	 Figure 1.25 had no title, but I pasted the text "Buses protocols -handshake
	 Under Figure 1.11 in that paragraph I couldn't understand the sentence "This implies that there can be multiple paths through the data and valid pipelines." - what does "multiple paths through the data" mean ?
	 Explanations incomplete below Figure 1.12 eg: "Therefore the 3 different pipelines." - what is with the 3 different pipelines ?
	 at page 18 there is a big figure, but it is not marked as a figure: only the anchored frame. attach it a figure heading ?
	 before Figure 1.13 - text is not descriptive enough (what is "csl_vector/DVS bus" or "csl_dvs bidirectional / Bus" )
	 Figures 1.15, 1.16, 1.17 and 1.19 have no title. Also there is little or no text explanation for them
	 Figure 1.20 has no title and is very unclear. Also, below this figure the sentence "CSL aggregatet types can be defined which can be used as the" is not finished, and the code section below (CSL an verilog) is not explained.
	 Figures 1.21 and 1.22 have share the same title, and the waveforms in both figures appear identical, only the signals names are changed. Also, above these figures there is a brief (maybe too brief) explanation about payload and packets; also, there is no details given on the type of the protocol over which the handshake is established between units fields and in what fashion is this accomplished.
	 Where do the CSL commands after figure 1.22 fit ? Should they be placed in the CSL commands section ?
	 Figure 1.25 has been titled "Request acknowledge bus"
	 Figures 1.27 and 1.28 have no title; Figure 1.27 is only two waveforms without any explanations or names
	 Figure 1.29 has no title: Maybe "Frame encoder" ?
	 Figure 1.30 has noi title: Maybe "Processor main blocks" ?
	 Block of text (approx 1 page) is exactly identical with the one on page 8 (which is itself similar with another block of text - see discussion above). Action: identical text has been removed.
	 text between Figures 1.30  and 1.31 is incomplete: what is the context in which Gen_interconnect is used ? Where is the transmission block ?
	 Below figure 1.31 - Replaced "creates a serdes" with "creates a SERDES (a SERializer to DESerializer device converts data from a serial data stream to a parallel data stream)."
	then replace: "creates a desser" with "Creates a DESSER (performs the reverse operation of a SERDES device, converting a parallel data stream to a serial data stream)"
	Note: I found the definition of the serdes device on the web, yet serdes was mentioned there as a device converting data from/to a serial data stream and a parallel data stream (both and no mention of the DESSER).
	 What is a "single bit pr bus"? What does pr stand for ? Also, the code section below is incomplete
	 Figure 1.32 had no title: suggested "packet demarcation signals"
	 1.6.2 - What does the bulleted list reffer to ? There is no context there.
	 Figure 1.33 has no title and is very incomplete
	 Figures 1.34 and 1.36 have no title and there are no explanations associated with them
	 Figure 1.37 has no title
	 Figure 1.39 has no title. Also there is no explanation regarding the block_begin and block_end signals
	 There is no context for Figures 1.40, 1.41 and 1.42. Also, text below Figure 1.42 is not complete

Global note: Most of this documents' contents falls into section 1.6 CSL Bus Checker, while other sections are void