From: Pappas Derek <dpappas@fplsrl.com>
Date: June 1, 2008 7:56:52 AM PDT
Subject: 2. Memory map provisional patent 


2. Memory map provisional patent
BACKGROUND
A state element holds values which only change after a clock changes and optionally a control signal is asserted.
Examples of state elements include registers, FIFO's, register files, and memories.
The state element can be written or read or optionally can be read only (contain constant values). 
Different groups in a project can have different permission level to read and write the state elements.
Permissions refer to read and write permission.
Access rights are granted to different groups on the project such as hardware, a set of hardware elements, software driver,
and software applications. 
A design has an associated address range. Parts of the address range may be reserved for future use.
Parts of the address range may be labeled as illegal (no addressable objects may be assigned to this range).
Designs contain state elements which have addresses. We will call these elements addressable objects. 
Addressable objects can be read or written depending on the accessor permissions and access rights. 
An addressable object can have a single address associated with it or an address range associated with it.
Addressable objects may not be allocated in illegal or reserved address ranges.
Endianess. A memory map can be 
Actions can be associated with addresses. Examples of actions include causing a counter to increment or
generating an input to a state machine.
Addresses can be associated with entire words or partial words (i.e. fields or bits).
The transactions contain an address, a command to execute, and optional data.
Examples of commands include read, write, DMA read, DMA write, ping, run, enable, poll, interrupt, read reply.
Transactions are sent to units. Units listen for transactions addressed to them. When a transaction addressed to them is received
The unit receives the transaction and executes the command. 
Address maps can be flat or hierarchical.
In either case addresses are associated with addressable objects in units.
Hierarchical address maps contain a set of local addresses for each addressable object. This is the local address map.
Unit instances are accessed with a unit address/identifier.
Addresses can be explicitly associated with addressable objects. Example the status register is located at address 15 in unit x.
Or the addressed can be assigned based on their relative position in a list that the user creates by specifying the relationship between
the addressable objects in the unit.


